![Thor wades rivers while the rest of the æsir ride across the bridge Bifröst as described in Grímnismál.](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/b/bc/Thor_wades_while_the_%C3%A6sir_ride_by_Fr%C3%B8lich.jpg/559px-Thor_wades_while_the_%C3%A6sir_ride_by_Fr%C3%B8lich.jpg).

# bifrost

Archive Kafka data safely to S3.

bifrost is a daemon that connects to Kafka, consumes all topics and
persists them to S3 for long term storage and analysis. It uses the
[baldr (default)](https://github.com/uswitch/baldr) or
[tar](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tar_%28computing%29) file format to
store Kafka messages. baldr-files are gzipped before they are written to
disk.

There are other services for persisting messages from Kafka to S3, such
as [secor](https://github.com/pinterest/secor) from pinterest. The main
difference between bifrost and these is, that whereas they rely on the
Hadoop sequence files for storage, bifrost uses the baldr or tar
format. This means that consumers of the persisted messages do not need
to rely on often very large implementations of libraries for reading
Hadoop sequence files. The baldr file format follows a minimal design
that allows for easy and quick streaming with a very small
code-footprint. It does not allow for arbitrary indexing. The tar file
format has widespread support on *nix platform systems.

## Usage

bifrost can be run directly from a checkout of the project by using
leiningen. The app requires some basic configuration, namely ZooKeeper
configuration to connect to Kafka and AWS credentials to store files on
S3. The project contains an example configuration in
`etc/config.edn.example`.

     $ lein run -- --config ./etc/config.edn

To run the app in production, we recomment building an uberjar and run
that on the app server.

    $ lein uberjar
    $ java -jar target/*-standalone.jar --config /opt/uswitch/bifrost/etc/config.edn

The Java temp-dir is used for storing files locally before uploading
them. Files are removed upon succesful upload and program exit. To
change the temp-directory, override `java.io.tmpdir`.

Logging is done through logback. To configure logback, please set
`logback.configurationFile`. The logback configuration is only respected
for uberjars. sl4j is used in development.

Here's a complete example of configuring and running an uberjar in
production.

    $ java -Djava.io.tmpdir=/mnt/bifrost-tmp \
           -Dlogback.configurationFile=/opt/uswitch/bifrost/etc/logback.xml \
           -server \
           -jar /opt/uswitch/bifrost/lib/*-standalone.jar \
           --config /opt/uswitch/bifrost/etc/config.edn

## License

Copyright © 2014 uSwitch

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at
your option) any later version.
